This is a third-party directory. Files in this directory do not have the same
license as the main repository. These files are used only for testing purposes.
Do not use them in any other way without their author first.

## How we use the files

1. Parser coverage. We need to ensure that Shader Minifier can parse a variety
   of shader files. These files help us improve the coverage and be more
   confident when we make changes to the parser.
 
2. AST transformation coverage. When we implement AST transformations, we run
   them on the test shaders. We call a shader compiler to ensure the output
   still compiles. Additionally, we manually review the changes to the minified
   shaders to spot potential issues.

3. Compression tests. We use these tests to check that Shader Minifier output
   stays small and compresses well. We need a variety of test files that are
   "realistic" (synthetic files wouldn't have the same compression profile).

4. Performance tests. We check the performance of Shader Minifier on real
   shaders and make sure it remains fast enough.


## Updating the files

- `.expected` files are generated by Shader Minifier. They are updated when we
  run the tests.
- If you own any of these files, you can reach out to update the file, clarify
  the attribution, or have it deleted.
- If you want to contribute new files, you can send a pull request. We prefer
  files that increase the code coverage or are representative of the modern
  demoscene.

Note: When the project started, it was not open-source and shaders were
collected from various sources. They are not always well attributed; sorry about
that, we're more careful from now on. We add files that have a compatible
license and add attribution in the file header.
